.. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.
.. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0
.. (c) Intel Corporation, Ericsson AB, Huawei, and others

.. _dovetail-certification_workflow:

============
OVP Workflow
============

Introduction
============

This document provides guidance for prospective participants on how to obtain 'OPNFV Verified'
status. The OPNFV Verified Program (OVP) is administered by the OPNFV Compliance and Certification
(C&C) committee.

For further information about the workflow and general inquiries about the
program, please check out the `OVP web portal`_, or contact
the C&C committee by email address verified@opnfv.org. This email address should be used
for all communication with the OVP.

Step 1: Participation Form Submission
=====================================

A participant should start the process by submitting an online participation form. The participation
form can found on the `OVP web portal`_ or directly at `OVP participation form`_ and the
following information must be provided:

- Organization name
- Organization website (if public)
- Product name and/or identifier
- Product specifications
- Product public documentation
- Product categories, choose one: (i) software and hardware (ii) software
  and third party hardware (please specify)
- Primary contact name, business email, postal address and phone number
  Only the primary contact email address should be used for
  official communication with OPNFV OVP.
- User ID for OVP web portal
  The OVP web portal supports the Linux Foundation user ID in the current release.
  If a new user ID is needed, visit https://identity.linuxfoundation.org.
- Location where the verification testing is to be conducted. Choose one:
  (internal vendor lab, third-party lab)
- If the test is to be conducted by a third-party lab, please specify
  name and contact information of the third-party lab, including email, address and
  phone number.
- OVP software version for compliance verification
- Testing date

Once the participation form information is received and in order, an email response will be
sent to the primary contact with confirmation and information to proceed. The primary contact
specified in the participation form will be entered into OVP web portal back-end by the program
administrator and will be permitted to submit results for review on behalf of their organization.

There is no fee at this time for participation in the OVP.

Step 2: Testing
===============

The following documents guide testers to prepare the test environment and run tests:

- :ref:`dovetail-system_preparation_guide`
- :ref:`dovetail-test_case_specification`
- :ref:`dovetail-testing_user_guide`

A unique Test ID is generated by the Dovetail tool for each test run and can only be
submitted to the OVP web portal once.

Step 3: Submitting Test Results
===============================

Users/testers other than the primary contact may use the OVP web portal as a resource to upload,
evaluate and share results in a private manner. Testers can upload the test results to the
`OVP web portal`_. By default, the results are visible only to the tester who uploaded the data.

Testers can self-review the test results through the portal until they are ready to ask
for OVP review. They may also add new test results as needed.

Once the tester is satisfied with the test result, the primary contact grants access to the test
result for OVP review using a 'submit for review' operation via the portal. The test result is
identified by the unique Test ID and becomes visible to a review group comprised of OPNFV
community members.

When a test result is made visible to the reviewers, the program administrator will ask for
volunteers from the review group using the verified@opnfv.org email and CC the primary contact
email that a review request has been made. The program administrator will supply the Test ID
and owner field (primary contact user ID) to the reviewers to identify the results.

Step 4: OVP Review
===================

Upon receiving the email request from the program administrator, the review group conducts a
peer based review of the test result using reviewer guidelines published per OVP release.
Persons employed by the same organization that submitted the test results or by affiliated
organizations will not be part of the reviewers.

The primary contact may be asked via email for any missing information or clarification of the
test results. The reviewers will make a determination and recommend compliance or non-compliance
to the C&C Committee. A positive review requires a minimum of two approvals from two distinct
organizations without any negative reviews. The program administrator sends an email to OVP/C&C
emails announcing a positive review. A one week limit is given for issues to be raised. If no
issue is raised, the C&C Committee approves the result and the program administrator sends an
email to OVP/C&C emails stating the result is approved.

Normally, the outcome of the review should be communicated to the primary contact within 10
business days after all required information is in order.

If a test result is denied, an appeal can be made to the C&C Committee for arbitration.

Step 5: Grant of Use of Program Marks
=====================================

If an application is approved, further information will be communicated to the primary contact
on the guidelines of using OVP Program Marks (including OVP logo) and the status of compliance
for promotional purposes.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2


.. References
.. _`OVP web portal`: https://verified.opnfv.org
.. _`OVP participation form`: https://na3.docusign.net/Member/PowerFormSigning.aspx?PowerFormId=e5ac4719-9285-4e99-a49c-6b22c1cb02e6
